Hathaor Bjönson just deadlifted 505 kg
an all-time world record at Eisenhart in
Germany in competition. The biggest
conventional deadlift in history. No one
has ever done this. Not in competition,
not in training, not anywhere. But
here's what makes it even more
impressive. He was forced to change his
technique on the day because the
platform surface interfered with his
usual setup. He couldn't use the
technique that he's practiced for over a
decade. And even with that change, he
still deadlifted more than anyone ever
has. In this video, I'm going to show
you exactly what happened behind the
scenes. The platform itself was a brand
new powerlifting platform built by
Leico, and these platforms have a carpet
surface. This style of platform is more
common in powerlifting, but in
Strongman, it's practically never used,
and Thor never trains or competes on
carpet. When the bar is loaded with any
heavy weight, rolling it across carpet
becomes a problem. The bar slows down
and creates ripples and wrinkles in the
surface, which interferes with the path
of the bar. And that's exactly what
happened. Thor couldn't roll the bar in
cleanly. The bar would catch or veer
slightly off track and that threw off
his setup, so he had to make a change on
the fly. This is not an excuse. It's
part of what makes this lift even more
impressive. Highle lifters performing a
lift of this magnitude rely on
consistency on all equipment being used.
Check this out. This is a video of Eddie
Hall explaining his conditions to
deadlift 500 kg in 2017. With the 500
kilo deadlift, one of my conditions was
I took my platform with me from the gym.
So, I already had the bar. I was
training with a Leo plates and I
actually lifted my platform up, put it
in a vine, drove it up there and set it
up so that the 500 kilo deadlift was
done on the platform that I trained
with. And I agree with this. The world
wants to see this lift and why not make
sure the conditions are ideal for this
to happen. At this level, details like
the type of barbell, the plates, and the
lifting platform being used make a huge
difference. For many lifters, a surface
like that wouldn't really matter. Most
lifters set up statically. They wedge
into position, brace, and pull from a
dead stop. But Thor and several of the
best super heavyweight deadlifters on
the planet are built differently and as
a result lift differently. Thor weighed
just under 200 kg body weight to pull
this 505. Eddie Hall was the same weight
when he pulled 500 kg. And so many of
the best deadlifters in strongman are
just massive. And bending down to the
perfect start position to do a max
deadlift isn't as simple as how
normalsized people bend over to grab a
bar. It's extremely difficult to get the
bar directly over the midfoot with
everything else aligned unless they roll
it in. The rollin lets them land in the
strongest position right as the bar
leaves the floor. Thor drilled that
exact setup for over a decade. It's not
only about momentum. It's about
precision. We've tested pulling from a
dead start and it's never been as
strong. The rollin works for him. But on
this carpeted platform, that technique
didn't work. The surface slowed down the
roll, redirected the bar, and forced
Thor to improvise mid comp. And when
you're going for the biggest deadlift in
history, you don't want to be using a
technique that you don't practice. But
Thor had to. Let's go through the
attempts. First attempt, 435 kg. Thor
tried to roll the bar in with his usual
technique and it caught. That threw off
his timing and position. That's why we
open conservatively. If something goes
wrong, he can still make the lift. And
as expected, 435 kg flew up. But if that
same issue had happened at 505, it could
have cost him the lift. So Thor had to
adjust. Second attempt, 470 kg. He
shortened the roll in to reduce the
chance of the bar catching, but his
start position was still off. He dropped
his hips lower than usual, which pushed
the shins forward. Moved the bar out in
front of his base of support and forced
the hips to shoot up early so that the
knees could get out of the way. Heavy
deadlifts don't leave the ground unless
the bar is directly over the midfoot.
Thor lost his usual strength off the
floor. Most people didn't notice because
he still moved 470 kg faster than anyone
in history has ever pulled that weight
with a conventional deadlift. Third
attempt, 505 kg. Same issue again. Start
position was off. Same glitch at the
bottom. That's what stressed me out the
most. To pull 505, everything needed to
be perfect. And it wasn't. At that
moment, I thought he wasn't going to get
it. But Thor is so damn strong. Even
with the errors, he held on and locked
it out. 505 kg. New all-time world
record. Done. Here's the truth. If the
platform had been familiar, if it hadn't
been carpeted, if he'd been able to use
his full technique, that lift would have
looked like a warm-up. And in six weeks,
Thor will have that chance. He's going
for 510 kg to break his own world record
again. This time at Giants live world
deadlift championship using a platform
that he's used to with the technique
that he's practiced for years. And if
everything goes to plan, if he peaks
well, the surface is clean and the setup
is familiar, that 510 kg is going to
look easier than that 505. So when
people ask who's the strongest
deadlifter on the planet, it's not even
a debate. It's Thor. And now the numbers
back it up. Stay tuned.